Document Snaps dialogs and home pages (#1302)
MetaMask/metamask-docs: snaps/features/custom-ui/dialogs.md

---
description: Display custom alert, confirmation, or prompt screens in MetaMask.
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Dialogs

You can display a dialog in the MetaMask UI using the
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) API method.
Dialogs can contain [custom UI](index.md) and [interactive UI](interactive-ui.md) components.

> There are three types of dialogs: [alerts](#display-an-alert-dialog),

Reviewer: This might work better as a bulleted list.

[confirmations](#display-a-confirmation-dialog), and [prompts](#display-a-prompt-dialog).

:::caution
Dialogs do not work when MetaMask is locked.
To check if MetaMask is locked, use
[`snap_getClientStatus`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_getclientstatus).
:::

## Request permission to display dialogs

To display dialogs, first request the [`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) permission.
Add the following to your Snap's manifest file:

```json title="snap.manifest.json"
"initialPermissions": {
  "snap_dialog": {}
}
```

## Display an alert dialog

To display an alert that can only be acknowledged, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "alert"`.

> The following example displays custom UI alerting the user that something happened in the system:

Reviewer: A bit more active. 
```suggestion
The following example displays a custom UI that alerts the user when something occurs in the system.
```

```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/alert-dialog.png").default} alt="Alert dialog example" width="360px" style={{border: "1px solid #DCDCDC"}} />
</p>

## Display a confirmation dialog

To display a confirmation that can be accepted or rejected, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "confirmation"`.
The following example displays custom UI asking the user to confirm whether they would like to take
an action:

```javascript title="index.js"
import { panel, text, heading } from "@metamask/snaps-sdk";

const result = await snap.request({
  method: "snap_dialog",
  params: {
    type: "confirmation",
    content: panel([
      heading("Would you like to take the action?"),
      text("The action is..."),
    ]),
  },
});

if (result === true) {
  // Do the action.
}
```

<p align="center">
<img src={require("../../assets/confirmation-dialog.png").default} alt="Confirmation dialog example" width="360px" style={{border: "1px solid #DCDCDC"}} />
</p>

## Display a prompt dialog

To display a prompt where the user can enter a text response, call
[`snap_dialog`](../../reference/snaps-api.md#snap_dialog) with `type: "prompt"`.

> Prompt dialogs also take a `placeholder` that will be in the input field when nothing is typed.

Reviewer: I think refrain from future tense. 

```suggestion
Prompt dialogs also accept a `placeholder` that displays in the input field when no text is entered.
```
